1 Mark

1.What is a postback in ASP.NET?
A) A method for sending data to the server
B) A method for receiving data from the server
C) A method for refreshing a page
D) A method for submitting a form
2.What does ASP.NET stand for?
a. Active Server Pages Network
b. Advanced System Programming .NET
c. Application Service Provider .NET
d. Active Server Pages .NET

3. Which of the following is the correct syntax for defining a server control in ASP.NET?
a. <control:Type runat="server" />
b. <asp:Type runat="server" />
c. <server:Type runat="control" />
d. <Type:server runat="control" />

4.		What is the purpose of the "CodeBehind" attribute in an ASP.NET page?

a. To link the page with its code-behind file
b. To specify the programming language used in the code-behind file
c. To define the target framework for the page
d. To set the page title

5.	Which of the following events is triggered when a button is clicked in an ASP.NET Web Form?
a. Page_Load
b. Button_Click
c. Page_Init
d. Button_OnClick

6. What is the purpose of the ViewState in ASP.NET?
a. To store session-specific information
b. To maintain the state of controls between postbacks
c. To store user authentication data
d. To cache frequently used data

7.	What is the role of the Global.asax file in an ASP.NET application?
a. It contains configuration settings for the application.
b. It handles application-level events and customizes application behavior.
c. It defines the layout and structure of the application.
d. It manages user authentication and authorization.

8.	Which control is used to display a pop-up calendar for selecting a date in ASP.NET?
a. DateControl
b. CalendarControl
c. DatePicker
d. Calendar
9.	What is the purpose of the SqlConnection object in ADO.NET?
a. To represent a connection to a database
b. To execute SQL commands against a database
c. To store the results of a database query
d. To define the structure of a database table
19.	What is the difference between a DataReader and a DataSet in ADO.NET?
a. A DataReader is read-only, forward-only, and faster, while a DataSet is a cache of data.
b. A DataSet is read-only, forward-only, and faster, while a DataReader is a cache of data.
c. Both DataReader and DataSet are the same and can be used interchangeably.
d. A DataSet is used for reading data, and a DataReader is used for updating data.


2marks
What’s the difference between .NET and .NET Framework?
Explain the concept of dependency injection in ASP.NET Core. Provide an example of how you would register and resolve a scoped service in the application.
How does ASP.NET Core handle static file serving?
What are the various approaches in Code First for model designing?
Describe Model Binding in ASP.NET Core.
Write difference between LINQ to SQL and Entity Framework 
How would you implement a secure file upload feature in an ASP.NET MVC application, ensuring that uploaded files are scanned for malware and stored in a secure manner?
Describe common performance optimization techniques for Entity Framework in an ASP.NET application. Provide an example of how you would optimize a database query to minimize the number of database round-trips.

4 Marks


What are the different validators in ASP.NET?
Describe the best practices for handling exceptions in an ASP.NET application. How would you log and handle exceptions to ensure a smooth user experience and aid in debugging?


How would you prevent Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) attacks in an ASP.NET web application? Provide examples of measures you would take to ensure the security of user input and output.


Explain the benefits of asynchronous programming in ASP.NET. Provide examples of situations where asynchronous programming can significantly improve performance.


Discuss the importance of dependency injection in ASP.NET and how you would implement it. Provide an example of a scenario where dependency injection is beneficial.


You are tasked with building a RESTful Web API using ASP.NET Web API. Explain the key components and steps involved in creating a secure and scalable Web API.

You need to implement real-time communication in an ASP.NET application. Explain the options available for achieving real-time updates, and provide an example of when SignalR might be the preferred solution.


Your ASP.NET application is experiencing performance issues. Describe the steps you would take to identify and resolve bottlenecks, optimizing the application for better performance.


Your ASP.NET application is expected to experience a significant increase in traffic. Explain how you would ensure the scalability of the application, both in terms of vertical and horizontal scaling.


Discuss the use of WebSockets in ASP.NET. Provide an example of a scenario where WebSockets are preferable over traditional HTTP communication.


Explain the importance of unit testing in ASP.NET development. Describe how you would approach writing unit tests for a controller in an ASP.NET MVC application.





1Build a website like Domino’s, Pizza Hut or McDonald's that enables customers to have a simple, seamless, and effective online food ordering and delivery experience!

Project Scope
Public Section
Home Page
About Us Page
Contact Us Page

2. Handle Errors in ASP.NET Core
3.Create REST Service using Web API
4.Implement MVC, Repository and Dependency Injection patterns


